# Release Package Naming Conventions

## Overall Package Naming Pattern

> <mark style="color:blue;">SnomedCT</mark>\_\[<mark style="color:blue;">Product</mark>]\[<mark style="color:blue;">Scope</mark>(optional)]\[<mark style="color:blue;">Format</mark>(optional)]\_\[<mark style="color:blue;">ReleaseStatus</mark>]\_\[<mark style="color:blue;">ReleaseDate</mark>]T\[<mark style="color:blue;">ReleaseTime</mark>]\[<mark style="color:blue;">TimeZone</mark>]

_e.g.  SnomedCT\_InternationalRF2\_PRODUCTION\_20250701T120000Z.zip_

## Package Name Elements

<table data-header-hidden data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="154.46484375"></th><th width="135.8046875"></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Element</strong></td><td><strong>Values</strong></td><td><strong>Description</strong></td></tr><tr><td>Product</td><td>&#x3C;any></td><td>Camel case short title sufficient to identify the product.</td></tr><tr><td>Scope (optional)</td><td>Edition</td><td>The release files included in the package fully resolve all dependencies of all modules included in the package.</td></tr><tr><td>Scope (optional)</td><td>Extension</td><td>The release files included in the package needs to be combined with the International Edition release package and any other packages required to resolve the dependencies declared by the Module Dependency Reference Set.</td></tr><tr><td>Format (optional)</td><td>RF1</td><td>Required for any release packages containing Release Format 1 files.</td></tr><tr><td>Format (optional)</td><td>RF2</td><td>Current value for all release packages.</td></tr><tr><td>Format (optional)</td><td>&#x3C;other></td><td>Other values may be specified in future.</td></tr><tr><td>ReleaseStatus</td><td>ALPHA</td><td><p>The package is an alpha release package, which is defined as a SNOMED CT release package made available only for initial review and testing by implementers and other stakeholders. </p><p><strong>Notes</strong></p><ul><li>An <em>alpha release package</em> must not be used in production clinical systems or in clinical settings. This includes Affiliate Licensees or any third parties, except those who have formally committed to test it.</li><li>An <em>alpha release</em> is used to test the format and content of the SNOMED CT release. Feedback is elicited and changes are made prior to publication of the beta release.</li><li><em>Alpha releases</em> were formerly known as a technology preview releases.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>ReleaseStatus</td><td>BETA</td><td><p>The package is a beta release package, which is defined as a SNOMED CT release package made available for review and testing only. </p><p><strong>Notes</strong></p><ul><li>Implementers and other stakeholders review and test the <em>beta release</em>.</li><li>The <em>beta release package</em> is made available prior to the production release. It must not be used in production clinical systems or in clinical settings. This includes Affiliate Licensees or any third parties, except those who have formally committed to test it.</li><li>The <em>beta release</em> status indicates it is expected to subsequently  be confirmed as a production release. If there is significant issue in format or content, it may be withdrawn, or replaced with an updated <em>beta release package</em>. Whether or not it becomes a production release is decided shortly before the due date for the next release. If a <em>beta release</em> is subsequently confirmed as a production release, all updates are fully version-tracked from the date of the <em>beta release</em>.  </li><li>Beta releases were formerly known as candidate baseline releases.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>ReleaseStatus</td><td>PRODUCTION</td><td><p>The package is a production release package, which is defined as a final, formally endorsed SNOMED CT release package intended for live use in appropriately licensed operational systems.</p><p><strong>Notes</strong></p><ul><li>A <em>production release package</em> represents the authoritative release of the product. Implementers can use it in operational clinical systems.</li><li>The <em>production release</em> status indicates that the releasing party (SNOMED International or the owner of the extension) commits to maintain the release history. Thus the historical audit trail is maintained through the product's lifetime.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>ReleaseDate</td><td>YYYYMMDD</td><td>The package release date formatted in accordance with ISO-8601.</td></tr><tr><td>ReleaseTime </td><td>HHMMSS</td><td>The package release time formatted in accordance with ISO-8601.</td></tr><tr><td>TimeZone</td><td>Z</td><td>The package timezone formatted in accordance with ISO-8601.</td></tr></tbody></table>
