# MRCM Domain Reference Set

## Purpose

An [723589008 |MRCM domain reference set|](http://snomed.info/id/723589008) enumerates the concept domains to which SNOMED CT attributes may be applied, and provides additional information to support these concept domains.

Each concept domain is uniquely identified by a SNOMED CT concept. When the scope of a domain covers the concepts in a particular hierarchy (or subhierarchy), the supertype concept of this hierarchy (or subhierarchy) is used to identify the domain. When a domain is defined based on membership in a reference set, the associated reference set concept is used to identify the domain. In some situations, a query may be required to define a complex domain. In these cases, the query's expansion reference set (referred to by the 'referencedComponent' of the relevant Query reference set) is used to identify the domain.

For each domain in the SNOMED CT concept model, the [723589008 |MRCM domain reference set|](http://snomed.info/id/723589008) will contain exactly one member. This reference set member will include an Expression Constraint that defines the concepts in the domain, the identifier of the immediate parent domain (or domains), the domain constraint defined in terms of its proximal primitive concepts and associated mandatory refinements, a generic Domain Expression Template for both precoordinated and postcoordinated content, and a reference to the associated guidance that provides additional human-readable text describing this domain. Please note that it is anticipated that the generic Domain Expression Templates will be specialized further for authoring of specific subdomains using specializations stored in a Template Library.

## Data Structure

An [723589008 |MRCM domain reference set|](http://snomed.info/id/723589008) is structured as shown in the following table.

<table data-header-hidden data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="298.9227294921875"></th><th width="94.0859375"></th><th width="252.32421875"></th><th width="89.25390625"></th><th width="144.0390625"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Field</strong></td><td><strong>Data type</strong></td><td><strong>Purpose</strong></td><td><strong>Mutable</strong></td><td><strong>Part of Primary Key</strong></td></tr><tr><td>id</td><td>UUID</td><td><p>A 128 bit unsigned Integer, uniquely identifying this reference set member.</p><p>Different versions of a <em>reference set member</em> share the same id but have different effectiveTime. This allows a <em>reference set member</em> to be modified or made inactive (i.e. removed from the active set) at a specified time.</p></td><td><mark style="color:$danger;">NO</mark></td><td><mark style="color:$success;">YES</mark> <br>(Full /Snapshot)</td></tr><tr><td>effectiveTime</td><td>Time</td><td><p>The inclusive date or time at which this version of the identified reference set member became the current version.</p><p><strong>Note</strong>: In distribution files the effectiveTime should follow the short ISO date format (<em>YYYYMMDD</em>) and should not include the hours, minutes, seconds or timezone indicator.</p><p>The current version of this reference set member at time <em>T</em> is the version with the most recent effectiveTime prior to or equal to time <em>T</em>.</p></td><td><mark style="color:$success;">YES</mark> </td><td><p><mark style="color:$success;">YES</mark> <br>(Full)</p><p><mark style="color:$success;">Optional</mark> (Snapshot) </p></td></tr><tr><td>active</td><td>Boolean</td><td><p>The state of the identified reference set member as at the specified effectiveTime .</p><p>If active = 1 (true) the reference set member is part of the current version of the set, if active = 0 (false) the reference set member is not part of the current version of the set.</p></td><td><mark style="color:$success;">YES</mark> </td><td><mark style="color:$danger;">NO</mark></td></tr><tr><td>moduleId</td><td>SCTID</td><td><p>Identifies the SNOMED CT module that contains this reference set member as at the specified effectiveTime .</p><p>The value must be a subtype of <a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000443000">900000000000443000 |Module (core metadata concept)|</a> within the metadata hierarchy.</p></td><td><mark style="color:$success;">YES</mark> </td><td><mark style="color:$danger;">NO</mark></td></tr><tr><td>refsetId</td><td>SCTID</td><td><p>Identifies the reference set to which this reference set member belongs.</p><p>In this case, a subtype descendant of: <a href="http://snomed.info/id/723589008">723589008 |MRCM domain reference set|</a></p></td><td><mark style="color:$danger;">NO</mark></td><td><mark style="color:$danger;">NO</mark></td></tr><tr><td>referencedComponentId</td><td>SCTID</td><td>A reference to the SNOMED CT component to be included in the reference set. A reference to the SNOMED CT concept that identifies the relevant concept domain.</td><td><mark style="color:$danger;">NO</mark></td><td><mark style="color:$danger;">NO</mark></td></tr><tr><td>domainConstraint</td><td>String</td><td><p>An expression constraint, which defines the set of concepts included in the given concept domain.</p><p>This string can be parsed using the ABNF syntax defined for the <a href="https://app.gitbook.com/o/h8Z6qGxuQrzM9vbx5bPT/s/sOJBD7YbxAy9bD1Ko9L9/">Expression Constraint Language</a>.</p></td><td><mark style="color:$success;">YES</mark>  </td><td><mark style="color:$danger;">NO</mark></td></tr><tr><td>parentDomain</td><td>String</td><td><p>An expression constraint, which represents the set of immediate parent domains.</p><p>An immediate parent domain is a domain that is a proper superset of the given domain, and which is not a proper superset of any other parent domain.</p></td><td><mark style="color:$success;">YES</mark> </td><td><mark style="color:$danger;">NO</mark></td></tr><tr><td>proximalPrimitiveConstraint</td><td>String</td><td><p>The domain constraint, as it would be represented for proximal primitive modelling. If the domain concept is sufficiently defined, then its proximal primitive parent will be used instead, while if the domain concept is primitive, then the concept itself is used. Additional constraints on the proximal primitive parent are also included.</p><p>The expansion of the given constraint must be further filtered to find those concepts with a definitionStatusId = <a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000074008">900000000000074008 |Primitive|</a> .</p><p>This string can be parsed using the ABNF syntax defined for the <a href="https://app.gitbook.com/o/h8Z6qGxuQrzM9vbx5bPT/s/sOJBD7YbxAy9bD1Ko9L9/">Expression Constraint Language</a>.</p></td><td><mark style="color:$success;">YES</mark></td><td><mark style="color:$danger;">NO</mark></td></tr><tr><td>proximalPrimitiveRefinement</td><td>String</td><td><p>The template representation of any additional refinements that are required to model in the given domain using proximal primitive modelling. These mandatory refinements reflect the defining relationships of the domain concept, when it is sufficiently defined.</p><p>This string can be parsed using the 'refinement' rule in the ABNF syntax defined for the <a href="https://app.gitbook.com/o/h8Z6qGxuQrzM9vbx5bPT/s/sOJBD7YbxAy9bD1Ko9L9/">Expression Constraint Language</a> .</p></td><td><mark style="color:$success;">YES</mark></td><td><mark style="color:$danger;">NO</mark></td></tr><tr><td>domainTemplateForPrecoordination</td><td>String</td><td><p>A general template that may be used to author precoordinated content. This template incorporates all of the mandatory attribute domain and range rules rules for precoordinated SNOMED CT content.</p><p>This string can be parsed using the Expression Template Language (currently under development).</p></td><td><mark style="color:$success;">YES</mark></td><td><mark style="color:$danger;">NO</mark></td></tr><tr><td>domainTemplateForPostcoordination</td><td>String</td><td><p>A general template that may be used to author postcoordinated content. This template incorporates all of the mandatory attribute domain and range rules rules for postcoordinated SNOMED CT content.</p><p>This string can be parsed using the Expression Template Language (currently under development).</p></td><td><mark style="color:$success;">YES</mark></td><td><mark style="color:$danger;">NO</mark></td></tr><tr><td>guideURL</td><td>URL</td><td><p>A Uniform Resource Locator (URL) that references a web resource in which the given domain is described in further detail.</p><p>This URL uses the following pattern: "http://snomed.org/dom<em>&#x3C;conceptId></em>"</p></td><td><mark style="color:$success;">YES</mark></td><td><mark style="color:$danger;">NO</mark></td></tr></tbody></table>

## Metadata

The following metadata hierarchy supports this reference set:

<table data-header-hidden data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><p></p><ul><li><p><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000454005">900000000000454005 | Foundation metadata concept|</a></p><ul><li><p><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000455006">900000000000455006 | Reference set|</a></p><ul><li><p><a href="http://snomed.info/id/723564002">723564002 | MRCM reference set|</a></p><ul><li><p><a href="http://snomed.info/id/723589008">723589008 | MRCM domain reference set|</a></p><ul><li><a href="http://snomed.info/id/723560006">723560006 | MRCM domain international reference set|</a></li></ul></li></ul></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000457003">900000000000457003 | Reference set attribute|</a></p><ul><li><a href="http://snomed.info/id/723565001">723565001 | Domain constraint|</a></li><li><a href="http://snomed.info/id/723570008">723570008 | Guide URL|</a></li><li><a href="http://snomed.info/id/723566000">723566000 | Parent domain|</a></li><li><a href="http://snomed.info/id/723567009">723567009 | Proximal primitive constraint|</a></li><li><a href="http://snomed.info/id/723568004">723568004 | Proximal primitive refinement|</a></li><li><p><a href="http://snomed.info/id/723569007">723569007 | Template|</a></p><ul><li><p><a href="http://snomed.info/id/723599003">723599003 | Domain template|</a></p><ul><li><a href="http://snomed.info/id/723600000">723600000 | Domain template for precoordination|</a></li><li><a href="http://snomed.info/id/723601001">723601001 | Domain template for postcoordination</a></li></ul></li></ul></li></ul></li></ul></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## Reference Set Descriptor and Example Data

{% hint style="info" %}
**Notes on the tables used to show descriptors and examples**

The reference set example tables on this page have been revised as follows to aid clarity and understanding:

* The first four columns which are present in all release files are not shown. The omitted columns (id, effectiveTime, active, moduleId) are used in the same way in all referenced sets to support identification, versioning and packaging. They do not directly affect the specific features of a particular reference set or reference set type.
* Reference set columns that contain SNOMED CT identifiers are expanded to show details of the concept or description referenced by that identifier. In some cases, the term is shown in the same column using the expression syntax, in other cases an additional column with a name suffix '\_term' has been added. In the standard reference set files only the identifier is present in the column and there is no added column for the term. When using reference sets, the term and other details of the component are looked up from the relevant component release files
{% endhint %}

### Descriptor Template

The table below shows the reference set descriptor for a reference set that follows the [723589008 |MRCM domain reference set|](http://snomed.info/id/723589008) pattern.

### Example Data

The table below shows some example rows from a reference set that uses the format of the [723589008 | MRCM domain reference set|](http://snomed.info/id/723589008) .

Please note that the generic domain templates defined for the SNOMED CT International Edition are designed to support a proximal primitive parent authoring approach. However, domain templates included in an extension's [723589008 | MRCM domain reference set|](http://snomed.info/id/723589008) \*\*\*\* may be designed to support a proximal parent authoring approach if required.

| **refsetId** | **referenced Component Id**             | **domain** **Constraint**                     | **parent Domain**                       | **proximal Primitive Constraint** | **proximal Primitive Refinement** | **domainTemplateForPrecoordination** | **domainTemplateForPostcoordination**         | **guideURL**                     |
| ------------ | --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- | --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| \[ 723560006 | MRCM domain international reference set | ]\(http://snomed.info/id/723560006 "723560006 | MRCM domain international reference set | ")                                | \[ 71388002                       | Procedure (procedure)                | ]\(http://snomed.info/id/71388002 "71388002   | Procedure (procedure)            |
| \[ 723560006 | MRCM domain international reference set | ]\(http://snomed.info/id/723560006 "723560006 | MRCM domain international reference set | ")                                | \[ 386053000                      | Evaluation procedure (procedure)     | ]\(http://snomed.info/id/386053000 "386053000 | Evaluation procedure (procedure) |
