# Appendix E: Concept Enumerations

SNOMED CT core _components_ have some fields that have values represented by concepts in specific parts of the SNOMED CT hierarchy. These are referred to as _concept_ enumerations.

The range of permitted values for each of the _concept_ enumerations is the set of subtypes of a specified _concept_ which is itself a _subtype_ of  [900000000000442005 |Core metadata concept (core metadata concept)](http://snomed.info/id/900000000000442005). The current set of _concept_ enumeration types is shown in Table Appendix E:-1. The values of each of these and the ways they should be used in implemented systems are described in the following subsections.

Table Appendix E:-1 Core metadata concept (core metadata concept) (900000000000442005)

<table data-header-hidden data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="225.2933349609375"></th><th width="612.79248046875"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Concept</strong></td><td><strong>Comment</strong></td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000443000">900000000000443000 |Module (core metadata concept)|</a></td><td>Each <em>subtype</em> of this <em>concept</em> represents a development module. These <em>concepts</em> provide values to the <a href="../appendix-b.-specification-reference-information/m/moduleid-field.md">moduleId</a> field that is present in all <em>component</em> release files. The value indicates the <em>module</em> within which a component was created and is being maintained.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000444006">900000000000444006 |Definition status (core metadata concept)|</a></td><td>Each <em>subtype</em> of this <em>concept</em> represents a value that can be applied to the concept.definitionStatusId field. This is used to indicate whether the current set of defining relationships applied to a <em>concept</em> are sufficient to define it relative to its supertypes.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000446008">900000000000446008 |Description type (core metadata concept)|</a></td><td>Each <em>subtype</em> of this <em>concept</em> represents a value that can be applied to the description.typeId field. This is used to indicate whether the <em>description</em> represents a fully specified name, a synonym, a text definition or some other symbolic or textual representation of the associated <em>concept</em>.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000447004">900000000000447004 |Case significance (core metadata concept)|</a></td><td>Each <em>subtype</em> of this <em>concept</em> represents a value that can be applied to the description.caseSignificanceId field. This is used to indicate whether the text of the <em>term</em> can be modified to by switching characters from upper to lower case (or vice-versa).</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000449001">900000000000449001 |Characteristic type (core metadata concept)|</a></td><td>Each <em>subtype</em> of this <em>concept</em> represents a value that can be applied to the relationship.characteristicTypeId field. This is used to indicate whether a <em>relationship</em> forms part of the definition of the source <em>concept</em>.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000450001">900000000000450001 |Modifier (core metadata concept)|</a></td><td>Each <em>subtype</em> of this <em>concept</em> represents a value that can be applied to the relationship.modifierId field. This is used to indicate the type of description logic (DL) restriction (some, all, etc.) that applies to the <em>relationship.</em></td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000453004">900000000000453004 |Identifier scheme (core metadata concept)|</a></td><td>Each <em>subtype</em> of this <em>concept</em> represents a value that can be applied to the identifier.identifierSchemeId field. This is used to indicate the scheme to which the identifier value belongs.</td></tr></tbody></table>

Note: Many of the concept enumerations include values that significantly impact the meaning or use of a _component_. Therefore, implementers may find it necessary to partially hard-code the way their systems process particular values. In these cases, the _concept_ referenced by the value is only of value when there is a requirement to display a human readable rending of the value. The main exceptions to this are [900000000000443000 |Module (core metadata concept)|](http://snomed.info/id/900000000000443000) and [900000000000453004 |Identifier scheme (core metadata concept)|](http://snomed.info/id/900000000000453004) both of which represent extensible sets of values as new modules or alternative _identifier_ schemes may be added in local Extensions .
