# Basic Reference Set Member File Format

The basic reference set data structure consists of the following fields:

**Basic Reference Set Data Structure**

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="209.45703125">Field</th><th width="113.08984375">Data type</th><th width="583.2273559570312">Purpose</th><th width="101.98046875">Mutable</th><th>PK*</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>id</td><td>UUID</td><td><p>A 128 bit unsigned Integer, uniquely identifying this reference set member.</p><p>Different versions of a <em>reference set member</em> share the same id but have different effectiveTime. This allows a <em>reference set member</em> to be modified or made inactive (i.e. removed from the active set) at a specified time.</p></td><td><mark style="color:red;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td><td><p><mark style="color:green;"><strong>YES</strong></mark> </p><p>(Full/Snapshot)</p></td></tr><tr><td>effectiveTime</td><td>Time</td><td><p>The inclusive date or time at which this version of the identified reference set member became the current version.</p><p><strong>Note</strong>: In distribution files the effectiveTime should follow the short ISO date format (<em>YYYYMMDD</em>) and should not include the hours, minutes, seconds or timezone indicator.</p><p>The current version of this reference set member at time <em>T</em> is the version with the most recent effectiveTime prior to or equal to time <em>T</em> .</p></td><td><mark style="color:green;"><strong>YES</strong></mark> </td><td><p><mark style="color:green;"><strong>YES</strong></mark> </p><p>(Full)<br><mark style="color:green;">Optional</mark><br>(Snapshot)</p></td></tr><tr><td>active</td><td>Boolean</td><td><p>The state of the identified reference set member as at the specified effectiveTime .</p><p>If active = 1 (true) the reference set member is part of the current version of the set, if active = 0 (false) the reference set member is not part of the current version of the set.</p></td><td><mark style="color:green;"><strong>YES</strong></mark> </td><td><mark style="color:red;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td></tr><tr><td>moduleId</td><td>SCTID</td><td><p>Identifies the SNOMED CT module that contains this reference set member as at the specified effectiveTime .</p><p>The value must be a subtype of <mark style="color:blue;">|</mark>Module (core metadata concept)<mark style="color:blue;">|</mark> within the metadata hierarchy.</p></td><td><mark style="color:green;"><strong>YES</strong></mark> </td><td><mark style="color:red;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td></tr><tr><td>refsetId</td><td>SCTID</td><td>Identifies the reference set to which this reference set member belongs.</td><td><mark style="color:red;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td><td><mark style="color:red;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td></tr><tr><td>referencedComponentId</td><td>SCTID</td><td>A reference to the SNOMED CT component to be included in the reference set.</td><td><mark style="color:red;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td><td><mark style="color:red;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td></tr><tr><td>Zero or more other fields dependent on reference set type</td><td>SCTID, String, or Integer</td><td>Optional field(s) serving purposes specific to the reference set type. For details see <a href="../5 reference-set-release-files-specification/5.2 reference-set-types/">Reference Set Types.</a></td><td><mark style="color:green;"><strong>YES</strong></mark></td><td><mark style="color:red;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td></tr></tbody></table>

Each reference set is identified and named by a  concept in the metadata hierarchy. Therefore the reference set is identified by a concept identifier (an SCTID).&#x20;

Each row in a reference set file represents a reference set member.

* Individual reference set members are uniquely identified by a identifier represented as a UUID.&#x20;
* Each reference set member belongs to a single reference set, and it is linked to that reference set by the refsetId field.&#x20;
* Each reference set member is also associated with a single referenced component by its  referencedComponentId field. The referenced component may be a  concept, description, relationship. If the referenced component is a concept that identifies another reference set, that reference set may be considered to be the target of the reference.
* Like  components,  reference set members can be versioned to inactivate or change the status of the member. So there may be several rows in a full release file and in this case the one with the most recent effectiveTime before or equal to the point in time under consideration represents state of that reference set member. If the  active field of this row is false ('0'), then the reference set member is  inactive at that point in time, which means that component it refers to is not a member of the reference set. If the  active field is true ('1'), then the component referenced by the  referencedComponentId field is deemed to be a member of the  reference set.

The refsetId and  referencedComponentId fields will not change between two rows with the same id, in other words they are immutable. Where a change is required to one of these fields, the current row will be inactivated (by appending a row with the same id and the  active field set to false). Another row with a new id will be appended to reference another component.

A component may belong to any number of reference sets. A component may also be referenced by more that one member of the same reference set. This is not useful in the case of a simple reference set but is relevant for some reference sets. For example, a SNOMED CT concept may map to or from more than on codes in another code system.
