# Query Specification Reference Set

## Purpose

A [900000000000512005 | Query specification type reference set|](http://snomed.info/id/900000000000512005) allows a serialised query to represent the membership of a subset of SNOMED CT components. A query contained in the reference set is run against the content of SNOMED CT to produce a subset of concepts, descriptions or relationships. The query is referred to an intensional definition of the subset. It can be run against future releases of SNOMED CT to generate an updated set of subset members.

The members of the resulting subset may also be represented in an enumerated form as a Simple reference set. An enumerated representation of a subset is referred to as an extensional definition.

## Data structure

A Query Specification Reference Set is a String reference set containing query that represent intensional definitions of subsets of components. The result of running the query is an extensional representation of the subset of components which can be represented as a Simple Reference Set. Its structure is shown in the following table.

**Query specification reference set - Data structure**

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="208.56640625">Field</th><th width="99.15234375">Data type</th><th width="612.5609741210938">Purpose</th><th width="89.484375">Mutable</th><th>PK*</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>id</td><td>UUID</td><td>A 128 bit unsigned Integer, uniquely identifying this reference set member.Different versions of a <em>reference set member</em> share the same id but have different effectiveTime. This allows a <em>reference set member</em> to be modified or made inactive (i.e. removed from the active set) at a specified time.</td><td><mark style="color:$danger;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td><td><mark style="color:$success;"><strong>YES</strong></mark><br>(Full/Snapshot)</td></tr><tr><td>effectiveTime</td><td>Time</td><td><p>The inclusive date or time at which this version of the identified reference set member became the current version.</p><p><strong>Note</strong> : In distribution files the effectiveTime should follow the short ISO date format (<em>YYYYMM DD</em>) and should not include the hours, minutes, seconds or timezone indicator.The current version of this reference set member at time <em>T</em> is the version with the most recent effectiveTime prior to or equal to time <em>T</em>.</p></td><td><mark style="color:$success;"><strong>YES</strong></mark></td><td><mark style="color:$success;"><strong>YES</strong></mark> <br>(Full)<br><mark style="color:$success;">Optional</mark> (Snapshot)</td></tr><tr><td>active</td><td>Boolean</td><td>The state of the identified reference set member as at the specified effectiveTime. If active = 1 (true) the reference set member is part of the current version of the set, if active = 0 (false) the reference set member is not part of the current version of the set.</td><td><mark style="color:$success;"><strong>YES</strong></mark></td><td><mark style="color:$danger;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td></tr><tr><td>moduleId</td><td>SCTID</td><td><p>Identifies the SNOMED CT module that contains this reference set member as at the specified effectiveTime .</p><p>The value must be a subtype of <a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000443000">900000000000443000 |Module (core metadata concept)|</a> within the metadata hierarchy.</p></td><td><mark style="color:$success;"><strong>YES</strong></mark></td><td><mark style="color:$danger;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td></tr><tr><td>refsetId</td><td>SCTID</td><td><p>Identifies the reference set to which this reference set member belongs.</p><p>A subtype descendant of:</p><p><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000512005">900000000000512005 | Query specification type|</a></p></td><td><mark style="color:$danger;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td><td><mark style="color:$danger;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td></tr><tr><td>referencedComponentId</td><td>SCTID</td><td>A reference to the SNOMED CT component to be included in the reference set.</td><td><mark style="color:$danger;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td><td><mark style="color:$danger;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td></tr><tr><td>query</td><td>String</td><td><p></p><p>The serialised query that can be used to (re-)generate the reference set members.</p><ul><li>The syntax for specifying the intensional definitions of concept subsets is specified in the <a href="https://app.gitbook.com/o/h8Z6qGxuQrzM9vbx5bPT/s/sOJBD7YbxAy9bD1Ko9L9/">Expression Constraint Language - Specification and Guide.</a></li></ul></td><td><mark style="color:$success;"><strong>YES</strong></mark></td><td><mark style="color:$danger;"><strong>NO</strong></mark></td></tr></tbody></table>

{% hint style="info" %}
PK\* indicates if the attribute is part of the primary key for that file/table.
{% endhint %}

***

## Metadata

The following metadata in the "Foundation metadata concept " hierarchy supports this reference set :

**Hierarchy of Foundation metadata concept**

> [900000000000454005 |Foundation metadata concept|](http://snomed.info/id/900000000000454005)\
> &#x20;        [900000000000455006 |Reference set|](http://snomed.info/id/900000000000455006)\
> &#x20;                [900000000000512005 |Query specification type|](http://snomed.info/id/900000000000512005)\
> &#x20;                        [900000000000513000 |Simple query specification|](http://snomed.info/id/900000000000513000)

***

## Reference Set Descriptor and Example Data

{% hint style="info" %}
**Notes on the tables used to show descriptors and examples**

The reference set example tables on this page have been revised as follows to aid clarity and understanding:

* The first four columns which are present in all release files are not shown. The omitted columns (id, effectiveTime, active, moduleId) are used in the same way in all referenced sets to support identification, versioning and packaging. They do not directly affect the specific features of a particular reference set or reference set type.
* Reference set columns that contain SNOMED CT identifiers are expanded to show details of the concept or description referenced by that identifier. In some cases, the term is shown in the same column using the expression syntax, in other cases an additional column with a name suffix '\_term' has been added. In the standard reference set files only the identifier is present in the column and there is no added column for the term. When using reference sets, the term and other details of the component are looked up from the relevant component release files.
{% endhint %}

#### Descriptor Template

The table below shows the descriptor that defines the structure of the [900000000000512005 | Query specification type reference set|](http://snomed.info/id/900000000000512005) pattern.

**Descriptor Template for Query Specification Reference Sets**

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="238.11956787109375">refsetId</th><th width="271.56011962890625">referencedComponentId</th><th width="275.47967529296875">attributeDescription </th><th width="237.8375244140625">attributeType</th><th width="97.77813720703125">attributeOrder </th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000456007">900000000000456007 |Reference set descriptor|</a></td><td><p></p><p><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000512005">900000000000512005 |Query specification type reference set|</a><br><br></p></td><td><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000514006">900000000000514006 |Generated reference set|</a></td><td><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000461009">900000000000461009 |Concept type component|</a></td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000456007">900000000000456007 |Reference set descriptor|</a></td><td><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000512005">900000000000512005 |Query specification type reference set|</a></td><td><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000515007">900000000000515007 |Query|</a></td><td><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000465000">900000000000465000 |String|</a></td><td>1</td></tr></tbody></table>

***

#### Example&#x20;

In the example below, "serialised query 1" is a text string that can be used to generate members for _Reference set_ _1_ , which is a simple member reference set (without any additional fields within its member records).

**Example rows from Query Specification Reference Set**

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="257.0546875">refsetId</th><th width="209.96875">referencedComponentId</th><th width="620.25">query</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><a href="http://snomed.info/id/900000000000513000">900000000000513000 | Simple query specification|</a></td><td><mark style="color:blue;">|</mark>Target reference set<mark style="color:blue;">|</mark></td><td><mark style="color:$warning;">&#x3C;</mark>  <a href="http://snomed.info/id/19829001">19829001 |disorder of lung|</a> :  <a href="http://snomed.info/id/116676008">116676008 |associated morphology|</a>  <mark style="color:$danger;">= &#x3C;&#x3C;</mark>  <a href="http://snomed.info/id/79654002">79654002 |edema|</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

***

## References

* See [Expression Constraint Language - Specification and Guide](https://app.gitbook.com/o/h8Z6qGxuQrzM9vbx5bPT/s/sOJBD7YbxAy9bD1Ko9L9/) for details of the language used to specify intensional definitions of concept subsets.






<a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScTmbZIf0UEQwYDkY27EEWBkaiYkHSbR0_9DmFrMLXoQLyL7Q/viewform?usp=pp_url&entry.1767247133=Release+File+Specification&entry.670899847=Query%20Specification%20Reference%20Set" class="button primary">Provide Feedback</a>
