# Module Identification

Each SNOMED CT component is managed and maintained in a module identified by its moduleId field.

A SNOMED CT module is defined as a group of SNOMED CT components and/or reference set members managed, maintained, and distributed as a unit.

### Notes

* Components and reference set members that are part of the same _module_ share the same moduleId value.
* All _modules_ , except the [900000000000012004 | SNOMED CT model component module|](http://snomed.info/id/900000000000012004) , have dependencies on other _modules_ specified by the [Module Dependency Reference Set](../../reference-set-release-file-specification/5.2-reference-set-types/5.2.4-metadata-reference-sets/5.2.4.2-module-dependency-reference-set.md).
  * components and reference set members, that are part of the same _module,_ share the same moduleId value.
  * components and reference set members are part of only one _module_ , at any given time.
* The organization responsible for maintaining an extension must:
  * create and maintain at least one _module_ identified by a _moduleId_ that it has created;
  * apply a _moduleId_ that it has created to all components and reference set members in its _extension_ ;
  * manage and distribute information about the dependencies of its _modules_ in accordance with SNOMED CT specifications.
* The organization responsible for maintaining an extension may:
  * create and maintain multiple _modules_ ;
  * organize its components and reference set members within the modules it manages in a way that best meets its business needs;
  * move a component or reference set member between its _modules_ by creating a revised version of that component or reference set member with a different _moduleId_ (It is then part of the new _module_ from the _effectiveTime_ of the revised version).
* Components and reference set members may be moved between _modules_ maintained by different organizations. However, such moves must only be made:
  * with the consent of the organizations responsible for both the source and target modules; and
  * in accordance with rules specified by SNOMED International.
